# Scientific-Computing-Tick-4
Scientific Computing tick 4
The impact of a universal basic income on economic inequality and social mobility.  
Goals
More than ever, there is extreme wealth inequality in our society, and it is often touted that despite large masses of people becoming poorer, in terms of wage stagnation, and how far their limited income goes, the richest in society continue to accumulate massive wealth, only widening the wealth gap. This report analyses the effects of introducing a universal basic income on mobility and inequality.
Methodology
In previous simulations, we have used a kinetic exchange model to show wealth changes between timesteps. I will be running two new simulations, in both, I will be introducing income and a wealth growth rate. I will still be implementing the kinetic exchange model. The average wealth growth rate for millionaires is around 6.3% (Source: UBS), to simplify, I will use 6% as my wealth growth rate, so after each time step, a person’s wealth will increase by 6%. Also, I will introduce a constant income for each person, randomly generated between 0 and 1, which will be added to their wealth at the end of each time step. Then, after these additions, wealth needs to be normalised so that income does not have to increase with inflation. In my second simulation, I will introduce a universal basic income of 0.2, so that everybody is guaranteed this, regardless of their income or wealth. I will produce four plots, mobility and gini coefficient over time, to compare both with and without a universal basic income. I will run each simulation on a population of 50000, over 1000 timesteps. Therefore, we can compare how inequality (gini coefficient), and mobility are different when a universal basic income is introduced.
